Add docs for service accounts 8.5 (#46801)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/administration/service-accounts/add-service-account-token.md

---
title: 'Add a token to a service account in Grafana'
menuTitle: 'Add a token to a service account'
description: 'This topic shows you how to add a token to a service account'
weight: 60
---

# Add a token to a service account in Grafana

> A service account token is a randomly generated string that is used to authenticate with Grafana, with specific permissions to interact with the Grafana HTTP APIs.

Reviewer: "randomly generated string" is this true? We do have specific format or?

> A service account token is a randomly generated string that is used to authenticate with Grafana, with specific permissions to interact with the Grafana HTTP APIs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A service account token is a randomly generated string that external system use to authenticate into Grafana, and include specific permissions to interact with the Grafana HTTP APIs.
```

For more information about service accounts, refer to [About service accounts in Grafana]({{< relref "./about-service-accounts.md">}}).

> You can create a service account token using the Grafana UI or via the API, for more information about creating a service account token via the API, refer to [HTTP API Create service account token]({{< relref "../../http_api/serviceaccount.md#create-service-account-tokens">}}).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can create a service account token using the Grafana UI or via the API. For more information about creating a service account token via the API, refer to [HTTP API Create service account token]({{< relref "../../http_api/serviceaccount.md#create-service-account-tokens">}}).
```

> Before you begin:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Before you begin
```

Reviewer 2: note of explanation. You are following the style guide correctly, but I have not yet updated that guide with new styling for the before you begin section, which is to format it as an H2 and to not include the colon.

Author: il see if i can fix all of the other before you begin

> - Ensure you have added the `service-accounts` feature toggle to Grafana. [Enable service accounts]({{< relref "./enable-service-accounts.md#">}})

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Ensure you have added the `service-accounts` feature toggle to Grafana. For more information about adding the `service-accounts` feature toggle, refer to [Enable service accounts]({{< relref "./enable-service-accounts.md#">}}).
```

- Ensure you have permission to create and edit service accounts. For more information about user roles, refer to [About users and permissions]({{< relref "../manage-users-and-permissions/about-users-and-permissions.md#">}}).
- Create a service account. [Create a service account in Grafana]({{< relref "./create-service-account.md#">}})

**To add a token to a service account:**

1. Sign in to Grafana and hover your cursor over the organization icon in the sidebar.
1. Click **Service accounts**.
1. Click the service account to which you want to add a token.
1. Click **Add token**.
1. Enter a name for the token.

> 1. (recommended) Enter an expiry date and expiry date for the token or leave it on no expiry date option. This specifies how long you want the key to be valid.

Reviewer: Formatting is broken here
<img width="710" alt="Screenshot 2022-04-07 at 12 44 25" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1861190/162181951-b14730ce-e501-4d4f-a69c-c75045d61ba1.png">

> 1. (recommended) Enter an expiry date and expiry date for the token or leave it on no expiry date option. This specifies how long you want the key to be valid.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. (recommended) Enter an expiry date and expiry date for the token or leave it on no expiry date option. 

    The expiry date specifies how long you want the key to be valid.
```

Reviewer 2: ^^ make sure that my formatting suggestion above is correct, build the docs and take a look. You might need to adjust the number spaces.

> - If you are unsure of an expiration date, we recommend that you set the token to expire after a short time, such as a few hours or less. This limits the risk associated with a token that is valid for a long time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - If you are unsure of an expiration date, we recommend that you set the token to expire after a short time, such as a few hours or less. This limits the risk associated with a token that is valid for a long time.
```

---

> title: 'Add a token to a service account in Grafana'

Reviewer: Should add screenshots next to the instructions?

Author: https://github.com/grafana/grafana/pull/46801/files#r843259075

menuTitle: 'Add token for service account'
aliases: [docs/sources/administration/service-accounts/add.md]

> description: 'This contains information about adding a token to a service account'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description: 'This topic shows you how to add a token to a service account'
```

weight: 60
---

> # Add a service account token to a service account in Grafana

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Add a token to a service account in Grafana
```

> You can add a token to service account in the service account tab of the organization.

Reviewer 2: Remove this line because it is part of the steps below. In the intro, I would add a few sentences about what a token is.

Something like (and I've made this up, so adjust accordingly "A service account token a 15-character alphanumeric string that establishes communication between external systems and Grafana. Each service account has at least one token."

> For more information about service accounts refer to [About service accounts in Grafana]({{< relref "./about-service-accounts.md">}}).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information about service accounts, refer to [About service accounts in Grafana]({{< relref "./about-service-accounts.md">}}).
```

> For more information about creating a service account token via the API, refer to [HTTP API Create service account token]({{< relref "../../http_api/serviceaccount.md#create-service-account-tokens">}}).

Reviewer 2: Add something like this before the link:

"You can create a service account token using the Grafana UI or using the HTTP API."

Author: 👍

Before you begin:

> - Ensure you have added the feature toggle for service accounts `service-accounts`. Refer to [Enable service accounts]({{< relref "./enable-service-accounts.md#">}})

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Ensure you have added the `service-accounts` feature toggle to Grafana. For more information about enabling service accounts, refer to [Enable service accounts]({{< relref "./enable-service-accounts.md#">}})
```

> - Ensure you have permission to create and edit service accounts, for more information refer to [About users and permissions]({{< relref "../manage-users-and-permissions/about-users-and-permissions.md#">}})

Reviewer 2: Is there a specific role they should be granted? If so, link them directly to that section in the About topic.

> - Ensure you have permission to create and edit service accounts, for more information refer to [About users and permissions]({{< relref "../manage-users-and-permissions/about-users-and-permissions.md#">}})

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Ensure you have permission to create and edit service accounts. For more information about user roles, refer to [About users and permissions]({{< relref "../manage-users-and-permissions/about-users-and-permissions.md#">}}).
```

> - Create a service account. Refer to [Create a service account in Grafana]({{< relref "./create-service-account.md#">}})

Reviewer 2: In cases where the before you begin text correlates directly with a task that you can link to, I've been not using the 'refer to for more information' text and simply adding the link to the list item.

**Add a token to a service account:**

> 1. Hover your mouse over the organization icon in the sidebar.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Sign in to Grafana and hover your cursor over the organization icon in the sidebar.
```

> 1. Click service accounts. Grafana opens the service accounts tab.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Click **Service accounts**. 
```

> 1. Click service accounts. Grafana opens the service accounts tab.

Reviewer 2: Two points here:
1) You do not need to provide documentation for behavior that is reinforced by the UI. In this case, you don't need to tell them that a tab opens, cause they will see that it opens when they click Service accounts.

2) Bold all UI elements. This applies to menu options, button labels, dropdown lists, etc.

Author: > Bold all UI elements. This applies to menu options, button labels, dropdown lists, etc.
I like this point

> 1. Click on the service account you want to add token to. Grafana opens a detailed view of the service account.

Reviewer 2: "Click on" is redundant, so you can remove 'on'. Just use "Click the service account..."

> 1. Click on the service account you want to add token to. Grafana opens a detailed view of the service account.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Click the service account to which you want to add a token.
```

> 1. Click on the **Add token** button.

Reviewer 2: You also don't need to identity that **Add token** is a button. The user will see that it is a button.

> 1. Click on the **Add token** button.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Click **Add token**.
```

> 1. (optionally) Enter a name for the token that will be the name of the token and you can set an expiry date for the token.

Reviewer 2: Does the UI make the distinction between required fields and optional fields? Is there an * next to required fields? (I would think so, there ought to be IMO). If that's the case, you don't need to call out that a field is Optional.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Enter a name for the token.
```

> 1. (recommended) Enter an expiry date and expiry date for the token or leave it on no expiry date option. This specifies how long you want the key to be valid.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Enter a date on which the token expires.
```

Author: this is optional. Not sure how to provide a good documentation for something that is optional.

> - If you are unsure of this step, we recommend that you set the key's time to live for a shorter time, such as a few hours or less. This creates much less risk than having API keys that are valid for a long time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- If you are unsure of an expiration date, we recommend that you set the token to expire after a short time, such as a few hours or less. This limits the risk associated with a token that is valid for a long time.
```

> 1. Finally click **Generate service account token**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Click **Generate service account token**.
```

> **To create a API key:**

Reviewer 2: Why is creating an API key instructions in the service account token instructions? Shouldn't it be its own topic?

Author: misplaced

> **To create a API key:**

Reviewer: I assume this is misplaced?

Author: correct, misplaced

> 1. In the Grafana console side menu, pause on the Configuration (gear) icon, then choose API Keys.

Reviewer 2: use the same convention here that I had mentioned earlier.

> 2. Choose **New API key**.

Reviewer 2: Use 'click' for button, menu items, tabs. Use 'select' for radio buttons and checkboxes. Same comment here about the name of the button. IMO it should be Create API key.

Author: yea, we have a bunch of places where it says new/create/add. Which is very inconsistent

3. Enter a unique name for the key.
4. For Role, select the access level that the key is to be granted.

- Select Admin to allow a user with this key to use APIs at the broadest, most powerful administrative level. Select Editor or Viewer to limit the key's users to those levels of power.

> 1. We strongly recommend that you set the key's time to live for a shorter time, such as a few hours or less. This creates much less risk than having API keys that are valid for a long time.

Reviewer 2: Not a step. See previous wording suggestion to change this text.

> 1. Choose Add.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Click  **Add**.
```
